README.md, before:

[![NPM version][npm-image]][npm-url]
[![Downloads][downloads-image]][downloads-url]
[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/eslint/eslint](https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/eslint/eslint?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)

# ESLint Release Tool

This release tool has been extracted from the [ESLint](https://github.com/eslint/eslint) project so that it can be shared among projects. While it's intended for use in ESLint organization projects, it is shared freely so others might use it as well.

Please note that while this project is shared freely, it is not intended to be a general-purpose utility. The functionality is highly specific to how ESLint projects handle releases and the project will remain very focused on this use case.

**Warning:** There are minimal tests for this project and the API is rapidly changing. Use at your own risk.

## Installation

You can install the ESLint release tool using [npm](https://npmjs.com):

```
$ npm install eslint-release --save-dev
```

## Usage

The ESLint release tool is designed to be used on the command line and has two modes: regular release and prerelease.

To run a regular release:

```
$ eslint-release
```

To run a prerelease, you need to include the prerelease identifier:

```
$ eslint-prerelease alpha
```

To run a release in a CI environment, be sure to set `NPM_TOKEN` environment variable and then run:

```
$ eslint-ci-release
```

You can optionally include the release tool in another Node.js script:

```js
var ReleaseOps = require("eslint-release");
```

## What It Does

When you run the release tool for a regular release, the following steps take place:

1. Updates your npm packages to ensure you're running everything with the version that would be installed with a fresh install (only outside of CI release)
1. Runs `npm test` to validate the release
1. Gathers the commit message for each commit since the last release
1. Calculates the next release version based on the [commit message format](http://eslint.org/docs/developer-guide/contributing/pull-requests#step-2-make-your-changes) of the changes since the last release
1. Updates `CHANGELOG.md` and commits the changes
1. Runs `npm version` to update the version
1. Pushes the repository to origin/master with tags (only outside of CI release)
1. Converts all line endings to Unix style
1. Publishes the package to npm
1. Reverts any file changes

When you do a prerelease, the same steps are taken except that package is published to npm under the `next` tag instead of `latest`.

## Team

These folks keep the project moving and are resources for help:

* Nicholas C. Zakas ([@nzakas](https://github.com/nzakas)) - project lead

## Contributing

Issues and pull requests will be triaged and responded to as quickly as possible. We operate under the [ESLint Contributor Guidelines](http://eslint.org/docs/developer-guide/contributing), so please be sure to read them before contributing. If you're not sure where to dig in, check out the [issues](https://github.com/eslint/eslint-release/issues).

### License

MIT License

### Where to ask for help?

Join our [Chatroom](https://gitter.im/eslint/eslint)

[npm-image]: https://img.shields.io/npm/v/eslint-release.svg?style=flat-square
[npm-url]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/eslint-release
[downloads-image]: https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/eslint-release.svg?style=flat-square
[downloads-url]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/eslint-release

Commit message:

Docs: Update README with CI info

README.md, after:

[![NPM version][npm-image]][npm-url]
[![Downloads][downloads-image]][downloads-url]
[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/eslint/eslint](https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/eslint/eslint?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)

# ESLint Release Tool

This release tool has been extracted from the [ESLint](https://github.com/eslint/eslint) project so that it can be shared among projects. While it's intended for use in ESLint organization projects, it is shared freely so others might use it as well.

Please note that while this project is shared freely, it is not intended to be a general-purpose utility. The functionality is highly specific to how ESLint projects handle releases and the project will remain very focused on this use case.

**Warning:** There are minimal tests for this project and the API is rapidly changing. Use at your own risk.

## Installation

You can install the ESLint release tool using [npm](https://npmjs.com):

```
$ npm install eslint-release --save-dev
```

## Local Usage

The ESLint release tool is designed to be used on the command line and has two modes: regular release and prerelease.

To run a regular release:

```
$ eslint-release
```

To run a prerelease, you need to include the prerelease identifier:

```
$ eslint-prerelease alpha
```

You can optionally include the release tool in another Node.js script:

```js
var ReleaseOps = require("eslint-release");
```

## CI Usage

When run in a CI environment like Jenkins, the ESLint release tool has different commands that allow for incorporation into more complex release scripts. To start, you'll need to define two environment variables:

* `NPM_TOKEN` - a token to use for `npm publish`. The token must be from a user that has permission to publish the package.
* `ESLINT_GITHUB_TOKEN` - a token for a GitHub user that has `repo` permission (used for posting release notes).

To run a release in a CI environment:

```
$ eslint-ci-release
```

This will generate a new version, update the changelog, and publish to npm but will not push back to GitHub. It will also generate a `.releaseInfo.json` file.

Your CI system must manually push the repository changes to GitHub (including the version tag). After that, you can publish release notes by running:

```
$ eslint-gh-release
```

This command looks for the `.releaseInfo.json` file and uses that information to determine where to post release notes and what to post.

**Note:** In Jenkins, `eslint-gh-release` must be run as the last step in the build (typically in a post-build script that occurs after the GitHub repository has been updated).

## What It Does

When you run the release tool for a regular release, the following steps take place:

1. Updates your npm packages to ensure you're running everything with the version that would be installed with a fresh install (only outside of CI release)
1. Runs `npm test` to validate the release
1. Gathers the commit message for each commit since the last release
1. Calculates the next release version based on the [commit message format](http://eslint.org/docs/developer-guide/contributing/pull-requests#step-2-make-your-changes) of the changes since the last release
1. Updates `CHANGELOG.md` and commits the changes
1. Runs `npm version` to update the version
1. Pushes the repository to origin/master with tags (only outside of CI release)
1. Converts all line endings to Unix style
1. Publishes the package to npm
1. Reverts any file changes

When you do a prerelease, the same steps are taken except that package is published to npm under the `next` tag instead of `latest`.

## Team

These folks keep the project moving and are resources for help:

* Nicholas C. Zakas ([@nzakas](https://github.com/nzakas)) - project lead

## Contributing

Issues and pull requests will be triaged and responded to as quickly as possible. We operate under the [ESLint Contributor Guidelines](http://eslint.org/docs/developer-guide/contributing), so please be sure to read them before contributing. If you're not sure where to dig in, check out the [issues](https://github.com/eslint/eslint-release/issues).

### License

MIT License

### Where to ask for help?

Join our [Chatroom](https://gitter.im/eslint/eslint)

[npm-image]: https://img.shields.io/npm/v/eslint-release.svg?style=flat-square
[npm-url]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/eslint-release
[downloads-image]: https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/eslint-release.svg?style=flat-square
[downloads-url]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/eslint-release
